you may not consider the black raspberry
as being a very successful crop in
Oklahoma but actually with a reasonable
amount of care it can be very successful
here at Oklahoma gardening studio we've
had real good success this year with our
black raspberries this variety is
Bristol and I think one of the keys to
success is of course choosing a variety
that has adapted to your location and
Bristol is adapted throughout most of
the state and then also paying
particular attention to the planting and
the care of the black raspberry you'll
notice that we've got these on somewhat
of a raised bed to give it good drainage
both air drainage and water drainage and
we've also got it mulched well and
that's the key to successful blackberry
production Oklahoma is a good soil a
good planting site and of course the
proper variety now is the time of the
year also that we can be doing some
things with the black raspberries they
can be propagated through a process
known as tip layering quite successfully
and late summer early fall is the time
to propagate those plants in fact many
of our trailing types of plants such as
the black raspberry and also some
ornamental such as forsythia and winter
jasmine and other types of how this
trailing growth habit can be propagated
by this layering method these plants
have a tendency to tip layer naturally
as you see has happened in this
particular on this particular cane right
here late in the summer and early fall
as the Canes begin to grow down and
reach the soil they will find their way
down into the soil and roots will begin
to form on the tip of that plant in the
springtime then you can remove this
plant from the soil take your pruning
shears are a clipper and clip it off and
there you have a new plant ready to
transplant somewhere else in the garden
or to give to a friend but if you want
to help this process along you can
employ two or three different techniques
that will give you an added number of
plants about this time of the year and
actually a little earlier as you can see
this one has done has has done naturally
inspect your plants and when you see
those that are reach
the ground and beginning to thin out and
form what we call a rat tail shape
toward the end those plants can be
buried straight down in the soil about
three to four inches deep just loosen
the soil with it still attached to the
cane that is growing on bury that tip
and firm the soil well through the fall
and early winter roots will form on this
tip of the plant and new shoots will
begin to grow then from the leaf axils
of the buds here and by next spring you
will have a new plant there that you can
clip off as I did the one previously and
move to another location in the garden
or share with a friend now if you're not
sure exactly what you want to do with
these plants but yet you would like to
go ahead and do some tip layering then I
would suggest you may want to fill a
container such as about a gallon nursery
container such as this or another large
container with good garden soil or
compost bury those in the garden and
then tip layer into those containers
again choosing one that is healthy
looking has the rat tail effect bury it
into the container much like we did in
the soil
and then fill in around that container
to give it some protection against the
winter temperatures then next spring
when the fruits have formed and the new
shoots begin to grow you'll have a plant
that has already been containerized and
you can then clip it off and keep it in
the container for several weeks or as
long as you may need to - until you
choose the spot where you want to put in
the garden or how you want to share it
with someone else
now one of the things that I like to do
is somehow mark these plants that I've
tipped layered so that I won't forget
where they are something like a surveyor
state or just a garden stake or a piece
of colorful string or rag will work just
as well I just simply tying that on the
cane that you have buried so that next
spring you'll remember where you have
done this tip learning procedure and as
I mentioned there are a good number of
ornamental shrubs that have this
trailing habit such as the black
raspberry that can also be tip layered
in this way and there are other forms of
layering that we can employ on other
types of shrubs and small fruits in the
garden such things as simple layering
which simply means taking a branch of
the plant or a limb of the plant that
has grown this season laying it flat on
the ground and then burying it with soil
in various spots so so that roots may
form along the node and then where roots
have formed you can cut these off and
have several plants in that manner
now black raspberry does not simple
layer nearly as easy as it tip layers
but there are other types of plants that
will do that if you want some
information on how to layer these types
of plants so that you can propagate them
then you may want to write us at
Oklahoma Garden we can provide you with
some information on layering ornamental
and fruit plants or you may want to
check with your local County Extension
Office but any rate I think is a good
way to get a new start of plants for
your garden or share them with a friend
you